Braden Rupp
A Comparison of Programing Languages

	There are multiple different programming languages that are available for business programming. There is no “best” programming language. Each language has it’s own strength and weaknesses. One language may be better to build a server application while another might be used for rapid prototyping and others to build an operating system. You also have to consider what platform you want your program to run on and whether or not your language is open source or not. I will be comparing Python, Java, and C++. 

	Python is an interpreted and not compiled language. It is delimitated by spaces and tabs. Because Python is not a complied language, it is very useful for rapid prototyping and getting quick results. However, because Python is not compiled it will not be as performance heavy as a language like C++. Python has a fairly simple syntax compared to languages like C++. Python has the ability to run on many different platforms. This makes it a very convenient choice when developing a program you want to run on both a mac and pc.  There are also many tutorials out there to program in Python. Python is an open source code so there is a lot flexibility in its use. You can write a program in Python and will not have to pay any royalties to another company. Overall, with is free cost, easy syntax, and fast prototyping, Python would be a good language to develop smaller less performance programs.

	Java is one of most popular programming languages in 2014. It is a Class based object oriented programming language. It is a compiled language that can run on multiple different platforms. Java is a cross-platform language so you can write a program once and run it on a variety of different machines. Because java is such a popular language, there are many videos and forums to help you learn and solve problems. Java is now owned by Oracle so there could be a potential to owe Oracle money when developing your program. However, there is still a vast library of tutorials, videos, and different packages available to use for free in your code. If you google a problem you have in Java, more than likely there is someone who has had the same problem and got an answer. Java is also used in mobile android development. 

	C++ is a general purpose objective oriented programing language. It is an older language but still is in use today although it is not used in mobile application development. C++ can be useful for building desktop applications, servers, video games and many other programs. There has been a movement from using C to C++ for game development.  It’s syntax is more complex than other languages but has a lot of powerful computing that makes it a good option for more intense programs. Writing a simple program like “Hello World” will take multiple lines compared to a language like Python. To use C++ on different platforms it must be compiled for each different platform. If you are looking to build a larger program that needs performance, C++ would be a good option to go with.

Overall, when deciding between what programming language you want to use you have to consider the project, the information available, different packages you can include. After you take all of the different business requirements into consideration you can use a language that will most benefit your project.
